♪ What I want
♪ What I see
♪ Lonely eyes stare
♪ Back at me
♪ Times have changed
♪ Memories faded
♪ We lie here broken
♪ At the end of the day
[speaking foreign language]
You have to finish everything tonight,
you understand?
[speaking foreign language]
Yeah, what you doing, huh?
Yeah, with a stick
of chalk, huh?
Repaint everything,
I'll check later.
[speaking foreign language]
Stop drinking coffee,
go back to work.
Yeah.
[speaking foreign language]
[gun clicks]
Can I help you?
We're lookin' for Nikolai.
Who are you?
We're the guys
lookin' for Nikolai.
What do you need him for?
Some business.
Business?
I am Nikolai.
How may I help you?
We were told you could help us
with some hard to find items.
Need a tugboat?
I build tugboats.
I build the best
tugboats in the world.
You have a drawing?
I can't build without a drawing.
Listen, didn't Sasha Rousse
tell you we were coming?
Who is Sasha Rousse?
[speaking foreign language]
Why you so nervous, officer?
First time undercover, eh?
You sayin' this guy's a cop?
Yeah.
I think this guy is a cop.
And cops come in
pairs, I have heard.
- Oh yeah?
- [Nikolai] Yeah.
I got $200,000 here, you
wanna do business or not?
Call Sasha Rousse, ask him.
If he's not cop,
I'm not Russian.
[speaking foreign language]
All right, ladies are gone.
Wanna do business or not?
What the hell am I doin'
here, wanna get down, brother?
- Yeah. - Right, then let's
start doin' business here.
- 200,000.
- [Nikolai] No problem.
Just shut up!
Shut up. Listen,
I know this guy a week.
He told me he'd finance the buy
so I could turn
this stuff around.
Sasha Rousse introduced us.
I barely know the guy.
I barely know any...
[9 ru nts]
[groaning]
Hey, hey, hey, take it easy.
I just want what I came for.
Look, I build boats, okay?
I know what you do.
I know who you are.
I can smell the gun oil in here.
What, you think
this guy's a cop?
- That what this is?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Think he's a cop?
- Yeah.
- [gun fires]
- [grunting]
There, he's a dead cop.
Now can I see what I came for?
Why not shoot the
cop in the head?
Like a real soldier.
'Cause I'm not a soldier.
Too messy, all right? Stop
the heart, stop the bleeding.
At least that's what I find.
Course, you wanna
do it yourself.
Go right ahead.
Come with me.
[speaking foreign language]
You want my guns?
I have guns.
- All right, excellent.
- Choose.
- Sig-556?
- Break action stock, yeah.
Now we're talkin'.
I like this.
What else you got?
Car-15.
Has perfect stock.
Yeah, you're right.
How many rounds?
- 1,050 rounds per minute.
- This works.
This'll sell good
on the streets.
- .223 ammunition?
- Yeah.
Excellent, K-grip,
too, I like this.
This'll work. Got anything
a little bit lighter?
Yeah, G-36.
Nice light, gentleman rifle.
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
You like this baby.
I like it a lot.
Excellent, how much
for everything? I want it all.
You have buyers lined up, huh?
You puttin' 'em up for
adoption or are you sellin' 'em?
- How much for everything?
- Yeah, I like that.
If you ever want real job,
you come see me, man.
I already got a job.
Mine pays better.
I believe that.
But every once and a while,
I get to stick my foot
up some KGB wannabe,
cheese ball, Russian
gangster's ass.
[siren wails]
Nothin's better.
Nothin's better than
seeing the jaw drop
on some communicable
disease like you
when he realizes he's been had
like a three dollar hooker.
[cops shouting]
It's okay, it's okay.
It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
Okay, all right.
[police band chattering]
[grunting]
You know how goddamn close
this came to missing my vest!
You were reachin'
for your gun.
He knew you were a cop, relax!
If you missed my vest
you coulda killed me!
You were gonna
blow the whole thing.
You should be in the
back of that van, man.
You got a screw loose up there.
It was a .22, man, relax.
Looks like I'll be
workin' alone again.
You always were workin' alone.
How 'bout a smile, lieutenant?
Whatever, bitch.
Discharging a firearm in the
direction of a police officer.
That's wrong.
Wrong?
Didn't shoot in his direction.
I shot him in the chest like
we're taught at the academy.
Ray, I've done my
best to ignore you.
And up until now, I've done
a pretty damn good job of it.
You went through six
partners in two years.
Thank you.
I shrugged it off.
I get phone calls
complainin' about you
and you know what I do?
I don't call 'em back.
Because I don't have an
answer to the question.
What question?
Why the hell are
you still here?
That question.
[rock music plays]
♪ I don't wanna be,
I ain't gonna be
♪ I don't wanna be lonesome
♪ I don't wanna be,
I ain't gonna be
♪ I don't wanna be lonesome
Come in.
You know Special
Lieutenant Baker.
Who doesn't know
the dream crusher?
Oh, that's lovely, I've
never heard that one before.
- Nice to see you, lieutenant.
- You as well, detective.
Still workin' hard to put your
brothers in blue behind bars?
Only if that's
where they belong.
I was appointed by the OPA to bring
this department into compliance.
- OPA?
- Office of Professional Accountability.
Ooh, sounds serious.
It is, it is, very serious.
It's a civilian review board.
They're the ones who
police the police.
And they do not like me.
They just don't
really like it when cops
shoot civilians or other cops.
Without just cause.
Without probable cause
to believe the suspect poses
a significant threat of death
or bodily injury to the
officer or others, yeah.
You know, you're cute.
Oh, okay, thanks.
You're cute, too.
In a sort of felony,
DUI, mugshot kind of way.
Were you being sexist?
Inappropriate.
We're done here.
Sit down.
- I'm fine standing.
- Sit down, Ray.
Sit down.
[Ray grunts]
I'm a bottom-line kind of guy.
I don't give a damn about much
except how many cases you clear.
Me, personally, I don't care
why you did what you did.
But, unfortunately
for you, OPA does.
Meaning?
Meaning you are
hereby suspended
with pay from active duty.
Pretty sure I
wasn't talkin' to you.
Well, that's okay,
I was definitely sure
I was talking to you.
You have 30 days to
appeal your suspension.
You should talk
to your union rep.
But we will be moving forward
with a misconduct investigation
that will, in all likelihood,
result in your termination.
I'm gonna need your badge
and your gun, detective.
Immediately.
Stan.
It's out of my hands, Ray.
Just enjoy the "with pay" part.
I just took 200
guns off the street
and shut down the biggest
arms dealer in this state.
- Know why I do it?
- To feed your overblown ego.
What a world we
live in, huh, Stan?
Top brass cares more
about coverin' their ass
and not gettin' sued than
actually catchin' the bad guys.
And you're just worried
about gettin' your pension.
Am I right?
Walk away, Ray.
Before you say somethin' that
you're really gonna regret.
I'm done.
[melancholic instrumental music]
That went really well.
♪ These eyes can't cry
♪ You don't need to
hide your wounds anymore
♪ You seem to merge
♪ Now let me bring you home
♪ Rest in my arms
♪ You don't need to fight
♪ Your own anymore
♪ Time cannot fight
♪ Nothing can slow us down
♪ Ooh, ah
♪ Ooh
Another one for
the collection.
Heard you got suspended.
Shot your partner.
Hey, you gotta do
what it takes, right?
- You kill him?
- Flesh wound.
Shot him right where his
heart would be if he had one.
This is last month's.
Same results, no prints,
same paper, printer.
No saliva, no DNA.
Same demand.
$2,000,112 and 35 cents.
Yep, and now it makes it
our one year anniversary.
Aren't you even
a little curious?
I mean, who this guy is?
At the end of the day, it'll be more
nothing in my giant pile of nothings.
[slow tempo piano music plays]
Hey, yeah, I just got home.
No, um, lemme just
take a quick shower
and get changed and, um,
I'll see you there.
Yeah, I'm fine,
it was a good day.
Nope, everything's fine.
I will just see you there.
Okay, bye.
♪ Then it disappears
♪ Unguarded
♪ What was concealed
♪ Discarded
♪ It's yours to steal
♪ Don't want my feet
to touch the ground
♪ Just turn my whole world
♪ Upside down
[Ray reading indistinct]
♪ Framed pictures
♪ Of life before
♪ Now fractured
♪ Lie on the floor
♪ New memories
♪ They break the fall
♪ And now there's room left
♪ On the wall
_ l-l€Y-
♪ No warning signs
♪ No shelter
♪ No place to hide
♪ A force as strong
as any storm
♪ No point in running anymore
Can't keep coming here.
I know it's hard but, uh...
I know.
I miss him, too.
♪ Bruised and battered
♪ You're broken wide open
[cell phone buzzes]
[birds chirp]
[cell phone beeps]
[sighs]
[heavy rock music]
[Ray] What's goin' on?
Maybe you can tell us.
This was in the package you
brought to the lab yesterday.
Got an ID?
Not yet, but
we're workin' on it.
It's an IP address from a
public DNS server in Moscow.
The address redirected
us to a secure website.
What?
We tried logging in,
but it's password protected.
Five characters.
Tried your badge, birthday.
Anything personal
you can think of?
Um, try my address.
Uh, 22093.
[typing]
[computer beeping]
Negative.
[sighs]
[Stan] Anything else?
Try "Mikey-"
M-I-K-E-Y?
Yeah.
We're in.
Oh. This live?
[tech] It's live.
[Stan] Can you track it?
Not easy, signal's
being redirected.
Could be anywhere in the world.
[man] Detective Thompson,
are you there?
I can assume my package
caught your attention, yes?
Much simpler to
answer my letters.
But I do what I have to.
When you owe person,
you must make good
or there is much big trouble.
- Can he see me?
- Therefore, you must bleed.
No, it's his feed.
[man] You give me
now $2, 000, 112.35
and I don't punish anybody.
Just call me with my money.
Get the bomb unit online,
send 'em a still.
I want an ID on that
kid immediately.
I'm on with missing persons. Turner, can you
get a screen grab of the child sent to CPS?
[man] Today at 12 noon,
Detective Thompson-
Meet me at the event
at the Colosseum.
You go to window,
ticket in your name.
You deliver money in backpack.
I give you his
location and address.
No die packs, no marked bills.
No police.
I see them, he dies.
[tech] We can get a warrant
for the server records
but it'll take some time.
How long?
We don't know. Days, weeks.
Bomb unit's saying
that the wiring,
the detonator are all Russian
military and very powerful.
How powerful?
They're saying that
there's a kill radius
of approximately 40 yards.
Can they disarm it?
There's a five-way latching
mechanism right there.
It's probably
wired to set it off
if anyone attempts to remove it.
Also saying that there is
possibly a second phantom switch.
But those aren't
our only problems.
He can detonate that bomb wherever
and whenever he wants to...
...with a phone call.
[rock music plays]
♪ You got a lot
that you don't share
♪ They're black as night
but you don't care ♪
♪ I threaten you,
you threaten me
♪ You're far away
and can't you see
♪ I'm gonna run into
the battle zone, fool
♪ Look around,
you're on your own
♪ Throw your hands in the air
and walk away
♪ And live to love
another day
♪ Throw your hands
in the air and walk away
♪ And live to love
♪ Love, love, love another
We have a tactical team
on standby if needed.
We have officers from the
gang unit who speak Russian,
and special ops working
undercover in the arena.
Let me take him,
I'll get the kid's location.
He'll lawyer up in ten minutes.
It won't take that long.
Listen, Ray, you've been
sittin' on this for a year.
If this does not go by the book,
it's not gonna look good.
And you're gonna be
on the hook for it.
Do you really wanna
see that headline?
"Dead Kid, Rogue Cop."
How many threats does
this department get a week?
We investigate half of 'em, we take 8O
percent of our manpower off the streets.
You know that, I know that.
The mayor, the media,
you think they care?
They're gonna want
heads and yours
is gonna be the first to roll.
You're a bag man, nothing more.
You carry the bag
and get your tickets.
See where they take ya.
We'll have eyes on you
and the bag the entire time.
We'll have officers
throughout the arena.
When he calls in the
victim's location,
we'll take him down.
Do we understand each other?
Ray, do we understand
each other?
- Yes.
- [Stan] Good.
$2,000,112.35.
What's the $112.35?
We've got a GPS transmitter
in the bag's lining.
We're actually
gonna pay this guy?
- For now.
- Great.
What can go wrong?
[indistinct chatter]
Ticket for Ray Thompson.
[girls shouting]
- Here you go, Mr. Thompson.
- Thank you.
[Stan] Can we get
a better connection?
[tech] Trying. Getting
interference from all the WiFi.
[cheering and shouting]
You're down there, sir.
Go ahead.
[cheeflng]
I think you're in my seat.
Hey, you left your phone.
[man]
It's not mine, dude.
[announcer] The Ascension.
[cheers and boos]
Kendricks,
he knows you're a cop.
Cover's blown, get outta here.
[Kendricks]
Damn, I'm outta here.
[shoufing]
We need eyes, section 36.
[cheers and shouting]
All right, Ray, you're done.
Walk it back.
[announced
Lucha,mchaJucha.
Lucha, lucha, lucha.
Lucha, lucha...
We've got movement
heading up aisle 34.
We've got him.
West corridor.
Tactical surveillance.
Mobile, waiting for call.
Tell everyone to
stay out of sight.
We're tracking him using GPS.
Do not follow.
Ray, do you hear me?
Do not go in there.
Do we have cameras in there?
Negative.
All right,
everyone, sit tight.
Damn it.
[boos and shouting]
Why'd you pull me out?
'Cause you look like a cop.
Why isn't the signal moving?
He switched bags.
Take him now.
Yeah, I got him.
Sir! Sir!
Slow down. Sir.
Hey, hold on!
[groans]
[Ray] Officer down,
officer down, code three.
Send medics.
In pursuit of the suspect.
Heading to west stairwell.
This is a
restricted area, sir!
- [gun fires]
' [groans]
[screaming]
[Ray]
Shots fired, shots fired!
[9 ru nts]
- Damn it, I'm a cop!
- Show me your badge.
I... hang on, hang on!
[groaning]
Now that's a real man.
[cheers]
' [Ray] Freeze!
' [gun fires]
[gun fires]
[cheers]
In the upper catwalk,
shots fired, shots fired.
[gun fires]
Stop, stop right there!
[gun clicks]
[RaY] D0n't, please.
You should have listened.
I am listening, I am.
I told you no cops.
[speaks foreign language]
I'm not a cop today.
Okay?
Truth is, you and I are
not so very different.
We both know loss.
But I never took
anything from you.
- Until now.
- Don't, please.
You take life from me.
I take life from you.
- No. - That child, the
others are on your head now.
- No.
- I see you in hell.
No, no, no, no, no!
" No!
Tell me he didn't
make the call.
He didn't make the call.
No ID, just these.
We should get
these worked out.
Probably burner phones anyway.
So you're telling
me we've got a bomb
strapped to a kid
somewhere in this city
that only an
unidentified dead man
knows the location of,
that's awesome.
Only six hours
and 42 minutes to find him.
- Where are you going?
- Am I reinstated?
- No.
- Under arrest?
- Then that's my own fuckin' business.
[rock music plays]
♪ I am the man
♪ I do just what I wanna do
♪ Living for today
♪ Ignoring all your rules
♪ The streets are my paradise
♪ Heaven in the midst
♪ Life revolves around me
♪ You don't exist
♪ Take a step inside my shoes
♪ And see what I see
♪ This is what I see
♪ King of my world
♪ Going nowhere fast
♪ Got nothing to do
♪ No basis for my thought
♪ Lacking any clue
♪ Doing as I please
♪ Playing a fool
♪ Total independence
♪ Irrelevant to you
[tires squeal]
[crashing thud]
I hope you have insurance.
I hope you become
a man one day.
So you wanna settle
this right here?
- This isn't a game for me.
- But it is for me?
I don't know
what it is for you.
I've got five hours and 40
minutes to save someone's life.
What are you doin' here?
So you wanna help me save him?
Are you wanna go
write another report?
[thrashing death metal music]
[knocking]
[man]
We're closed.
[knocking]
I said we're closed.
[shoufing]
[groaning]
[grunting]
Hey, get back...
Everybody down! Now!
Get down now!
Everybody on their knees!
Now, you know who the hell I am?
Get down, now!
On your knees now!
Why you messin'
with my man, bitch?
Stay back, ma'am, ma'am.
- That hurt!
- I need you to calm down.
Turn off the damn music.
Down!
Everybody, now! Now!
- Now, now!
- On your knees!
[Julia] We need you
out of there, please.
Listen, I don't give a
damn about your warrants,
drugs, hookers, or any meth
you're cookin' in the back.
I just need some information.
Can anyone ID this guy?
Anyone?
Take a good look, there's a kid
with a bomb strapped to him.
Can anyone identify this guy?
How 'bout these tats?
Actually look at
it, guys, come on!
It's a tattoo shop,
you recognize these tats?
There's a bomb strapped
to a little kid.
Frank.
I got a get out ofjail
free card for anyone
who gives us information.
You sure you don't
recognize these tats?
Frank, how many things
I cleared up for you?
Take a good long look.
Old school Russian gang tats.
Snake on the neck.
Says he's a drug addict
or was a drug addict.
The mermaid says the dude's
a rapist or a child molester.
That's all I can tell ya.
Uncuff him.
Handled yourself
pretty well in there.
- For a girl?
- Yeah, for a girl.
Course now the Angels
are clockin' ya.
How does it feel to have
a target on your back?
I don't know, like Tuesday.
Every cop in the department
has a target on my back.
They shoot better than Skulls.
Look, Ray, you gotta
know more than anybody
how important it is
to police the cops.
You can't be above the law.
Your real family's more important
than your family in blue.
Really, you're gonna
lecture me about family?
- Why are you doing this?
- Doing what?
This, working this case.
Throwing what's left of
your career out for it.
You know I have to
document everything you do
and all the many,
many rules that you break.
- 'Cause it's your job, right?
- 'Cause it's my job, that's right.
You know why I do this job?
I do actually believe
in the system.
You know what's funny is
you used to, too.
I know that.
Read your file.
Maybe we got off
on the wrong foot.
- I... I don't...
- You don't what?
Look, you want my badge
when this is done, fine.
Five hours, nine minutes,
11 seconds, it's yours.
What do you need?
There's an extortion
ring I busted in Tacoma
about a year ago,
Russian nationalists.
They're involved in everything
from auto insurance scams
to medicare fraud.
Check my case file,
see if our bomber
comes up anywhere in there.
Our guy's low-end,
he's an immigrant.
Go check the area
around James and Mester.
Someone'll know him, and bring
a picture of the kid, too.
Someone should be
able to identify him.
- Where are you going?
- See a man about a boat.
[meat sizzles]
[speaking foreign language]
[gagging]
And here I was all this time
thinkin' the justice
system actually worked.
It does. If your lawyer costs
you eight bills an hour.
Got to love America.
Amen to that.
How much you got on you? Can you
reach for your wallet now?
- What do you want?
- Russian military grade explosives.
Who deals in 'em?
You come into my house.
You threaten my family.
I'm just threatening
your windpipe.
Thanks for the idea.
Family might work.
[splashing]
[speaking foreign language]
Man this is fun, huh?
See, no slow-moving
parts, no ammunition.
What do you think?
Alexander, Alexander Makarov.
If it's military...
it comes through him.
Where?
Russian Consulate.
He's at the Russian Consulate.
You tell this, Nikolai,
I'll come back for you.
And you won't have to worry about
your family being threatened.
They'll already be gone.
[gun fires]
Hey, it's okay, it
was just a bear, okay?
Just go inside and
play your video games.
Have you guys seen,
do you recognize this kid?
- No.
- You've never seen this kid?
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Hi, I'm just wondering if
you recognize this kid.
Do you, have you
seen this, this boy?
Do you recognize, do
you recognize this boy?
[speaking foreign language]
Excuse me?
Yeah, he's a little
boy, have you seen him?
Do you speak English?
I speak English.
- You do?
- Yeah.
What, do you know where?
Come with us, come with us.
Okay.
Where, across the street?
[speaking foreign language]
Where are we going?
[speaks foreign language]
[banging]
[speaking foreign language]
Tell him, tell him I don't
care if he's here illegally.
I just wanna ask a few
questions about his son.
Okay?
[speaking foreign language]
I just, I just wanna
talk about your son, sir.
I just have a few questions.
[speaking foreign language]
Hey, who is this?
He's Anatoly,
he's seven years old.
Anatoly, his name's Anatoly?
He's seven years, okay, good.
This is your son, right?
When was the last
time you saw him?
[speaking foreign language]
Are you scared,
I think he's scared, I...
Tell him I know
that he's scared,
not to be afraid,
I'm not gonna arrest him.
[speaking foreign language]
Okay, I'm just trying
to find his son.
But I don't have much time.
[speaking foreign language]
NO jail?
No, no, no jail, no.
Look, this guy, who's this guy?
Do you recognize him?
[speaking foreign language]
That man was supposed
to take Anatoly
back to Russia last week.
He had to be in Volgograd
with his grandmother.
Okay, okay, but he's
not there, he's not there.
[speaking foreign language]
[girl] Phone calls to Volgograd
are real expensive.
And he just found out
that he wasn't there.
Okay.
What is the name of the
man who took Anatoly?
[speaking foreign language]
[knocking]
What are you doin' in here?
Police, Special
Lieutenant Julia Baker.
- What are you doing in here?
- I'm the owner.
You got a warrant,
Special Lieutenant Julia Baker?
- I'm on an active case.
- Have you got a warrant?
I can get a warrant,
I can get lots of warrants.
I can get the fire marshal,
I can get the health inspector.
I can get INS if
that'll make you happy.
You don't got a
warrant, you gotta go.
I'm sorry, he's not
hearing me, do you need?
I can translate,
she can translate for me.
You don't intimidate me, lady.
I don't care who you are,
I don't care if you're a cop
or my ex-wife or the
health department.
You don't come in here
without my permission
and harass my tenants.
You guys are doin' this all
the time and it's bullshit!
I'm tired of it, you gotta go.
Icanleave,lcanleave.
I can also bang down a
couple of these doors
around here just
for the hell of it.
See what I find. You know
what I bet, I bet there's lots
of terrified illegals
hiding in here
who have no other choice
but to live in this shithole
with a slumlord, because
he takes advantage of them
'cause he knows they probably can't
rent very many other places.
And you may be paying off
people at Building and Safety.
I guarantee you, I can get this
place shut down in 24 hours.
You can go to jail. Your filthy little
lawyer won't even hear from you
before you've had
a chance to spend
one fun-filled night
in a cell block
with a man named
Marcus in King County.
How does that sound?
[speaking foreign language]
What?
That's the name of the man that was
supposed to take his son to Russia.
Vladislav Pavel.
[speaking foreign language]
He's the photo on your phone.
He lives in this building.
[alarm buzzes]
You have anything
metal on your person?
Just this.
[guard] Gun!
[shouting and grunting]
[groaning]
M a ka rov?
- I don't--
- [Ray] Where?
- I don't.
- Where? Where?
- Upstairs.
- Room.
- Room!
- End of the hall.
[groans]
[grunting]
[speaking foreign language]
- [groans]
- [screams]
Who are you?
[grunting]
The guy who decides if
you live or die today.
Sit down, down!
I am Russian Consul General.
I have diplomatic immunity.
[groaning]
[shoufing]
Funny, you don't look immune.
[groaning]
A good friend of
ours, Nikolai Koskei,
he swears on his
life that you dabble
in stolen Russian
military weapons, plastics
- chemicals, explosives.
- No!
Among other things.
Now normally this
type of information
would go to the proper channels.
[groaning]
An investigation would take
place, payoffs would be made,
and you'd go about your business
minus a couple of bucks.
But today's a little
bit different.
You see, some Russian junkie
strapped a whole lot
of your explosives
to an innocent little boy
and it's gonna go off
in less than four hours,
which is four more
than you're gonna live
if you don't give me
the name of someone
who would build a device like
that no questions asked.
You're a dead man.
Do you know this?
[groaning]
I'm a hard guy to take down.
Officially, I have no idea
what you're talking about.
[knocking]
[groaning]
How about unofficially?
Go see Slava the bomb-maker
that lives in Fremont.
[shouting foreign language]
Listen, listen,
your boss man here,
he's got a broken nose
and a pen in his leg.
He's gonna be fine,
it's gonna heal.
I just wanna get
out of here, okay?
I just want--
[guns fire]
[sirens wail]
No one gets paid enough
to be a hero here, okay?
Especially not me!
Your boss here is gonna
bleed out in 10 minutes.
Focus on saving your boss.
[groaning]
[sirens wail]
[cell phone beeps]
What? Yeah, yeah,
as far as you know.
Okay, where? Where?
[mutters indistinct]
[tires squeal]
Hey, hey, someone recognized
the kid, Anatoly. He's seven.
They lD'd our bomber,
Vladislav Pavel.
He lived in the room
right above him.
- You call it in?
- No, I guess I forgot to.
Iguessitsfifl takes four hours
to get an expedited warrant.
Get anywhere on my
Tacoma extortion case?
Yeah, both your
Russian nationals
are being held at King County.
ADA was negotiating a plea deal.
ICE got involved.
One of the suspects is wanted for murder
back in Russia so they deported him.
- Got any names? - Still waiting
for the feds to send the file.
Well, that's his room.
If you want any of his
shit, just let me know.
- Okay.
- I'll get ya a good price.
Looks like he was
applying for political asylum.
Guess it didn't go through.
Ooh, it looks like someone had quite
the man crush on you, officer.
What?
Ooh, is this our kid?
No.
Someone else's.
We need to see your basement.
- Whatever.
- The boy could be there.
- [Ray] Anyone ever come down here?
- [landlord] No, just rats.
[Ray] I don't see Anatoly.
[Julia] We have to look.
He's not here.
- Where are we going?
- Got the address of a bomb maker.
From a very cooperative
Russian diplomat.
Wait, what?
You gotta be kiddin' me.
Hey, someone 'jacked my truck.
That's a $40,000 truck!
Damn it!
Hey, just get in,
I'll call it in.
Aw, come on, no
one saw anything?
Just ride with me,
we'll call it in.
This city's a sewer.
[engine starts]
[tires squeak]
[Ray] There is nothing in
our arrest records
about a Vladislav Pavel.
Oh, come on, P-A-V-E--
I know how to spell it.
It's not in there.
Why don't you check the
sexual offenders database?
First thing I did, dead end.
Send it to
Jennifer Mahr in my contacts.
- Mahr, M-A-H-E-R? - H-R, there
isn't even another one in there.
[Ray] M-A-H-R.
Got it.
[Julia] Good, she can access
all of our databases
and we get us a facial
recognition match.
We also need to follow up on the
warrant request for the server logs.
- On it. - Check and find out
whatever happened to PavePs
application for amnesty.
There's gotta be
something in there.
Got it.
[Julia] This the place?
11391, that's it.
Hello?
[Julia] Police.
[Ray] Police, anyone here?
[Julia] SPD.
[knocking]
[Ray] Police.
[door creaks]
Slava?
[TV chattering]
You Slava?
I am Slava.
No last name, like
Usher and Beyonce.
Fantastic. I'm Ray.
Middle and last names
both besides the point.
Who is the pretty lady?
[Ray] She's a police officer.
She's helping me on a case.
We're trying to find a boy.
Oh, very pretty.
Alexander Makarov. He told me you'd
have some information for me.
You know, your friend from
the Russian Consulate?
Yes, Mr. Makarov contacted me.
He's very angry with you.
Said I should blow you up
and mail him your pieces.
Good price, too.
That sounds just like him.
I don't like him either.
He's Russian, I'm Ukrainian,
from Kiev.
He was appointed by Putin.
Just wanna ask you about
a bomb you may have built.
Vladislav Pavel.
I made many bombs
for many people.
That's what I do.
For people who want to
blow up their bosses
or their boats or
businesses for insurance.
A picture of it right here.
Yeah, it is mine.
Four liter chlorine azide.
Makes a very big boom.
Unstable, too. And there is bias
voltage set up on the harness clasp.
So if you try to
remove it, boom.
Looks like he mounted it right.
- How long ago was he here?
- Uh, 10 days, maybe less.
He say anything
about what it was for?
For getting even.
That's all I know,
I don't ask question,
I just build what they want.
Okay, listen,
you old, old man.
That bomb that you built is now
strapped to a seven year old little boy
and it's supposed
to go off in, oh,
just under an hour
and a half from now,
so we don't really
have time for this.
So how 'bout I just
put this in your mouth
and pull the trigger like
I'm doing a load of laundry.
Then I would be dead.
I would like to help you.
I don't like to kill children.
But I only know what I know.
So if you do find the boy,
you want to immobilize the latch
before you remove it.
And if it makes you feel better,
I never cashed that paycheck
he signed over to me.
I am sometimes not about money.
What check?
[Julia] What was it?
Noble Custom Cut,
Four Harbor Drive.
[siren chirps]
How you doin', Ray?
You're not returning any calls.
Been kinda busy.
[Kendricks]
Captain wants to see you.
[Ray] Well, arrest the guy
inside, he's the bomb maker.
- [Kendricks] Cut the crap.
- I'll call him later.
[Kendricks] Hey, he
wants me to bring you in.
Good luck with that.
There's no answer.
- [Pepper spray hisses]
' [Ray grunts]
God!
[choking]
[Ray] Kendricks!
[grunting]
- Guys, hey!
' [Ray groans]
Kendricks, easy, hey,
why are you takin' him in?
Ask the captain.
[Roy groans]
Come on!
[Roy moans]
[Kendricks] You're lucky
you didn't catch a bullet.
Yeah, there's a lot
of that goin' around.
You want your rep or
lawyer, I can arrange that.
I don't need a lawyer.
I need to find Vladislav Pavel.
We know where he works. You need to
get Cronin to send a unit there now.
We will. You have a grudge
against this department?
You figure the
department owes you?
Yeah, about 200
hours of overtime.
But who's counting?
Is that yours?
Nope, mine's right here.
We found that in
your desk drawer.
Yeah, well, it's not mine.
Is that your name
and post office box address?
I don't have a PO box.
How would you describe
your relationship
with your fellow officers?
You know what my
relationship is.
I work my ass off.
Why don't we go back to
August 7th, three years ago?
When your son died.
When he was killed.
At a homicide division picnic.
You don't think I
see that every night
when I shut my eyes?
He was playing on the streets, fellow
cop had a few too many, hit him, right?
He was twice the legal limit
with two DUls under his belt.
And you sued the
city for $2,000,000.
How'd that case go?
And then your wife
left you for another cop.
You poured yourself
into your work.
A lot of guys didn't
like your methods.
Must be carryin'
a lot of built-up anger.
More by the minute.
There are 121 phone calls
to the dead bomber
over the course of a
year from your cellphone.
[Ray] I told you,
that's not my cellphone.
[Kendricks] The bill was paid with a check
from your account at Dominion Trust.
- I don't have an account there.
- Opened 13 months ago.
Is that your signature?
[Julia]
Detective Baker.
[Jennifer] Hello, Julia,
this is Jennifer Mahr.
In response to your email, I
am sending you the only Pavel
we have in our database.
But his name is
Igor not Vladisla v.
He set me up.
Just in case.
Why would he do that?
Do you believe I did this, Al?
Don't you think
I'd cover my tracks
a little bit better than this?
If this was my deal, you
wouldn't find a thing.
How long you
been planning this?
I shoulda shot
you in the head.
You know what I think?
I think, after Mikey
died, you lost it.
You roll on this Russian, decide to
blackmail the city to get what's yours.
Maybe he's got a bone to
pick with the department.
Maybe he's just
weak in the head.
Either way, you sell
him on your worldview,
stoke that fire,
pump him full of hate,
give him a plan and a
chance at an easy payday.
The buck 12 and
change, you tack on
to give it just that
little edge of crazy.
Now the b0mber's dead.
You see he can't make
it outwith your money.
You shoot him in the head.
Like a soldier.
So no witnesses.
You know I don't know
where that kid is, right?
That died with the Russian.
The only thing I know
is that you wanna
do the right thing.
You're right, I do.
- Captain, you wanna see this.
- Not right now.
No, right now's a
good time I think.
It's actually kind of important.
It's pertinent information!
He's right there.
Fourth floor, center stairwell.
[grunting]
[groaning]
- Hold it, Ray, don't do it!
- We got eyes on him!
No, no, don't do it!
[man] He jumped down,
he jumped down the floor.
[grunting]
Hands, put your hands up now!
Freeze right there, turn around!
Get the fuck on the ground now!
Down on the ground now.
[grunting and groaning]
[crashing]
[grunting]
You're gonna get
yourself killed, Ray.
- Give it up.
- Okay.
It's over.
" Qkay_
" Qkay?
I'm sorry.
[groaning]
Gimme that!
[gun clicks]
You had your chance.
- [gun fires]
" [Ray groans]
Want another one, huh?
- [gun fires]
- [Ray shouts]
How's that feel, huh?
- [Ray groans]
- Want more?
- [gun fires]
- [Ray shouts and groans]
- What are you doin', man?
- Give it up, Ray!
- Get off of me!
- What are you doin'?
Stop, Ray, I'll still shoot.
[man screams]
Hey, hey! Get in!
[car horn honks]
Get in!
[tires squeal]
- Why are ya doin' this?
- $112.35.
What?
Russians, the fraud and extortion
ring you busted in Tacoma?
Yes, yes, the case I
told you to look up, yes.
Well, the guy
that they deported,
he had $112.35 in his
pocket when you booked him.
Gotta tell you, lieutenant,
that is a real shitty reason
for you to be in a
car with me right now.
Okay, what about
$2,000,112.35, ring a bell?
- Yes, yes, of course.
- Correct?
Okay, so $2,000,000
implicate you
and $112.35 for his brother.
What, whose brother?
The guy you busted,
the guy they deported,
his last name is Pavel,
he's the b0mber's brother.
He was wanted back in
Mother Russia for murder
so it wasn't the bomber
applying for asylum,
it was actually his brother.
Once he got deported, they hung
him a month later in Russia.
That's what you're paying for.
- It's a blood debt.
- Takes all kinds.
[Ray] We need to follow that
paycheck that wasn't cashed.
Anatoly might be there.
[engine roars]
[door creaks]
Hey, what are you doin'?
This is a restricted area.
SPD.
Lookin' for this guy.
Shit, Vlad.
Yeah, so he works here?
Well judging from
the hole in his head,
I guess he doesn't
work here anymore.
What did he do?
He was our night watchman.
Guy was a fruit loop.
This place is
flypaper for freaks.
So he woulda been the
only one here at nights?
Yeah, that's the idea.
At night, keepin' people out.
We need to see all your
outbuildings,
anyplace he could've
hidden something.
How much time you got?
Forty-three minutes
and 22 seconds.
Hey, it's Blake,
they're here, man.
Yeah, the ones
you're lookin' for.
I don't know, you want me
to hold on to 'em here?
[Ray] Anatoly!
This place is huge.
I'll check in here.
'Toly?
An atoly!
An atoly.
[Julia]
Ray!
Gotta call this in.
We need more people.
[Ray]
Anatoly!
An atoly!
Shit.
Ray! Ray!
Thompson!
Thompson! Gotta go!
We gotta go!
[Ray] What is it?
It better be good.
[tires squeal]
He worked in the police
maintenance department
for 46 days, he
applied as Yuri Alexi,
with matching documents,
matching social.
They're pretty confident
it's the same guy.
Same man on the video.
That's how he got
the kid inside.
That's Vladislav Pavel,
that's our kidnapper.
We also got the logs from
the server in Belarus.
Turns out the signal was
relaying through a computer
at police headquarters,
your computer.
He was keeping him in the
very last place we'd look.
We gotta call this in to EOD.
Are those our guys?
[engine roars]
[speaking foreign language]
[Ray] Come on,
they're right behind us!
Go, go!
Comin' up on my side.
Watch out.
[speaking foreign language]
Careful.
They're comin' up on each side.
Do you know where you're going?
No idea.
Three point six
miles this way.
[tires squeal]
[speaking foreign language]
Watch out, watch out.
Keep goin', keep goin'.
Oh, shit.
Or don't.
Turn!
[speaking foreign language]
They're behind us, they're
still on us, come on.
_ Keep go' ' JPE; keep 90in'!
7T1!
[speaking foreign language]
[Ray] Keep goin'.
Watch out.
Come on.
- Damn it.
- Nope, no, no.
Get out, get out.
Get out of the car!
Faster!
Get him.
You have everyone in
my network very scared.
Yeah, I do that sometimes.
- Bad for business.
- Killing a cop's worse.
You are not a cop.
And what I have planned for you,
isn't exactly killing.
It's more like lingering.
Well, you're just
gonna have to wait.
See, the timing of this whole
thing doesn't work for me.
- Really? - Yeah, yesterday, clay
before, hell, even tomorrow,
I'd probably laugh in your ugly
face and tell ya to get on with it,
but today's a little
bit different.
Today's the day, three
years ago, my son died.
And you are
telling me this why?
Three years ago, my son
was playing in the street.
He was playing football.
A car was coming.
I saw the car, I saw
the driver's eyes,
I saw it all, so I ran
and I was too late.
Three to four seconds too late.
I live with those seconds
every day of my life,
wishing I could get them back.
But the truth is I can't.
So I swore on my son's memory
I would never be late
again, you understand me?
I have no fucking idea
what you're talkin' about.
I'm talking about time. No
matter who you are, what you do,
what you're willing to
give, even your life,
you can never get it back.
It's all about timing.
It's like the man said,
life is all about timing.
- What man?
- Doesn't matter.
What matters is that
mine was shitty once
and a child died because of it.
And right now, yours is worse.
[groaning]
- [gun fires]
- [Nikolai shouts]
[tires squeal]
[gun fires]
[speaking foreign language]
[Ray] Got it!
Got it, got it.
[speaking foreign language]
Coming up on your side,
cut 'em off!
[gun fires]
[Ray] Down!
Is it bulletproof?
[speaking foreign language]
[gun fires]
Bulletproof-ish.
Watch out.
[crashing]
[speaking foreign language]
[gun fires]
Put the window down.
[guns fire]
Fuck, gimme the gun!
[speaking foreign language]
[gun fires]
[groaning]
[shouting foreign language]
Go, go, go!
That was... dramatic.
[cellphone rings]
Hey, we'll be there, yeah,
we'll be there in two minutes.
Don't, don't worry about Ray. Just
evacuate the goddamn building.
Call forensics,
get Emily Gordon on the line.
[engine roars]
[horn blares]
[tires squeal]
[Julia] Anatoly?
An atoly.
Check that way.
An atoly!
[muffled cries]
[metal creaks]
Baker, Baker!
[muffled cries]
Hey, buddy.
An atoly?
You speak English?
I'm gonna get you
outta here, okay?
Everything's gonna be fine.
Okay, we got a bunch
of good people here
helpin' you, okay?
We're gonna get you outta here.
Come on.
We're gonna take
you out, okay?
Nice and easy, buddy,
you're just fine.
Everybody move, outta the way!
Everybody out,
everybody out, move, now!
[Julia] Clear, clear, clear, clear.
Out, out, out, out of the building.
[Ray] It's time to
evacuate the building.
Out of the building, go!
Everybody out.
Outta here, come on. Let's go!
- Clear the building!
- It's gonna be okay, buddy.
[elevator dings]
Everybody out!
Out, get out, 90!
Everybody get outta
here, move, now, move!
Move, get out!
Get, get, go.
[elevator chirps]
[elevator dings]
Move, move, move!
Go, get outta the way!
Get outta the building,
clear the building!
Move, move, everybody
out, evacuate the building!
Evacuate the building!
Come on, people, out,
let's go,
let's go, come on, move!
[recorded voice]
Please evacuate the building
and meet in your
designated assembly areas.
[alarm blaring]
Go, I need you outta
the building, now!
It's gonna be fine, buddy.
Out of here, everyone
outta the building!
Everybody out!
[Julia] You guys have to move.
Outta here,
everybody leave, out!
- Everybody leave!
- Bring him over here, gently, gently.
- Sit him down here.
- Nice and easy, nice and easy.
When you hit it with the nitrogen,
it'll freeze the trigger switch,
- then you'll have ab0ut--
- Yeah, I know, no, I know.
I 90'! it, you guys gotta go now.
- Ray...
- Go.
Leave. Now, go.
All right, buddy, this is gonna
be kinda cold for a second, okay?
[jet hisses]
[recorded voice]
Please evacuate the building
and meet in your
designated assembly areas.
[Ray]
Careful, nice and easy.
Nice and easy, buddy, it's okay.
Almost there, buddy.
Nice and easy, nice and easy,
Slide your shoulders out.
That's right, you're almost out.
Okay.
I'm gonna lift you up.
Set those down.
One more.
[Stan]
Get back, get over there!
Let's go, come on, move!
[explosion]
[screaming]
[cheers and applause]
You okay, buddy?
Good job in there, buddy.
Very brave little kid.
Great job.
You did all right.
Yeah, right.
- Good job, Ray.
- Thank you.
[Kendricks] Interesting how
you knew where the kid was.
You know what, Kendricks?
[groaning]
I didn't see a thing.
[rock music plays]
♪ Remember yesterday
♪ The games we played
and things that mattered ♪
♪ You know
those days will come
♪ Again
♪ He said
♪ I'm glad
I called you up today
♪ I think I'll come and say
♪ Hello
♪ Now I know you were saying
♪ Goodbye
♪ I waited days
for my friend to call
♪ But he had already left
♪ Someday I'll see him
again
♪ We'll remember yesterday
♪ The games we played
and things that mattered
♪ And how those days
would end
♪ I wish I could've
made him stay
♪ I should have never
let him go
♪ And I wish I had told him
♪ Goodbye